# Metallic HCF BISON Model: 3D cycle fuel performance

*Contact: Youyeon Choi (MIT), yychoi@mit.edu*

*This model includes contributions by Guillaume Giudicelli (INL), Daniel Levario (UNM), Kyle Gamble (INL) and Koroush Shirvan (MIT)*

*Model link: [Metallic HCF BISON Model](https://github.com/idaholab/virtual_test_bed/tree/devel/lwr/hcf)*

## High Level Summary of Model

This model aims to simulate a cycle fuel performance of Helical Cruciform Fuel (HCF) under water-cooled Small Modular Reactor (SMR) conditions using BISON. As shown in [!ref](hcf_geometry), HCF design is composed of three different regions: the central displacer, fuel and cladding. From a materials perspective, the fuel material is U-50 wt.% Zr (U-50Zr) alloy, whose primary phase is $\delta$-UZr$_2$, which is different from conventional U-rich metallic fuels used in fast reactor applications. A Zr-based M5 alloy is used for the cladding, and the displacer region is expected to be filled with pure Zr or burnable absorber for neutronic core design.

!media lwr/hcf/HCF-geometry-intro.png
       style=width:60%
       id=hcf_geometry
       caption=HCF geometry and 17x17 lattice configuration.

## Computational Model Description

Files used by this model include:

- `moose_hcf_mesher.i`: input for MOOSE to generate a single 3D rod HCF mesh
- `input.i`: main input for BISON for the fuel performance simulation
- A CSV (comma-separated value) file defining the linear (axial) heat generation rate of the fuel
- CSV files defining the material properties (thermal conductivity, specific heat capcity, and thermal expansion) of U-50Zr fuel

This document describes a few elements specific to the input file of this model (`input.i`).

## Input Files description

### Mesh

`moose_hcf_mesher.i` is used to generate a HCF mesh with first-order hexahedral elements (HEX8) for BISON simulation. The geometry can be split into several curves, made of 1D edge elements, and those can be represented with an explicit (parameterized) formulations, which can be created by MOOSE using the `ParsedCurveGenerator`. After that, those curves are stitched to form an enclosed boundary using `StitchMeshGenerator` and the 2D mesh is generated by filling with 2D elements between the two curves using the `FillBetweenCurvesGenerator`. To extrude the mesh with an axial twist, the `AdvancedExtruderGenerator` is used with the `twist_pitch` parameter. Finally, to generate the sidesets and nodesets which are being used to apply boundary conditions, `BoundingBoxNodeSetGenerator`, `SideSetsFromNormalsGenerator` and `ParsedGenerateSideset` are used for various surfaces. The user can control the mesh density through several parameters defined at the top of the input file, such as `n_seg_lobe`, `n_seg_valley`, `n_seg_l2v`, `n_center`, `n_fuel_radial`, `n_clad_radial`, and `n_per_axial_pitch`. Furthermore, detailed geometrical specifictions can be controlled through addtional input file parameters such as `r_fuel`, `r_clad`, `R_fuel`, `R_clad`, `c_lobe_clad`, `c_lobe_valley`, and `c_valley`. [!ref](hcf_geometry_params) shows the definition of geometric parameters and [!ref](hcf_geometry_specs) summarizes the geometric parameters used in mesh generator and specific values used in this model.

!media lwr/hcf/HCF-geometry-params.png
       style=width:60%
       id=hcf_geometry_params
       caption=Definition of geometric parameters of HCF.

!table id=hcf_geometry_specs caption=Geometric specifications of HCF (see figure for parameter meaning).
| Parameter  | Value (mm)  |
| :- | :- |
| r_fuel | 1.05 |
| r_clad | 1.30 |
| R_fuel | 3.45 |
| R_clad | 3.20 |
| l2v_fuel | 0.25 |
| l2v_clad | 0.50 |
| c_lobe_clad | 5.00 |
| c_lobe_fuel | 4.75 |
| c_valley | 4.50 |
| L_disp | 0.85 |
| Rod pitch | 12.6 |
| Axial pitch | 500 |


Any MOOSE applicaton can be used to generate a HCF mesh using this input as all the objects used are part of the core MOOSE framework.
For instance, a BISON user may execute the following command on any of INL's HPC Cluster:

```
module load use.moose bison-openmpi
bison-opt -i moose_hcf_mesher.i
```

This will generate the HCF mesh file (`mesh.e`), which is used in BISON simulations.

### Functions

BISON is capable of modeling U-Pu-Zr alloy fuel for fuel performance analysis. However, the metallic fuel models in BISON are based on the experimental data for fast reactor applications where the fuels were U-rich alloys, which are mostly in $\alpha$-phase with less than approximately 10 wt.\% of Zirconium content. Given that U-50Zr alloy will operate in a different phase ($\delta$-phase), there is a high uncertainty in using existing models for this application.

To reduce uncertainties associated with applying models for different phases, the material properties are implemented through `Functions` to better represent the characteristics of the U-50Zr alloy, using published studies of U-Zr alloys. Specifically, thermal properties including thermal conductivity, heat capacity, and thermal expansion are implemented based on experimental data from Idaho National Laboratory (INL) [!citep](beausoleil_u-50zr_2021), where a preliminary thermophysical and mechanical evaluation of unirradiated U-50Zr was conducted. INL's experimental data exhibit good agreement with previously reported measurements for U-50Zr, whereas BISON's models, which are specifically developed for U-rich U-Zr alloys, show noticeable discrepancies. This highlights the importance of applying phase-appropriate thermal properties to ensure accurate fuel performance analysis.

!listing hcf/input.i block=u50zr_thermal_conductivity language=cpp

!listing hcf/input.i block=u50zr_heat_capacity language=cpp

!listing hcf/input.i block=u50zr_therm_expan language=cpp

### CoolantChannel BISON syntax

This model uses normal operating conditions of the 250 MWth NuScale Power Module (NPM). [!ref](lhgr_history) shows the linear heat generation rate (LHGR) history of the hot fuel pin obtained from a NPM replica design developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) [!citep](halimi_fuel_2025). The pin-wise peak LHGR is used in this model to simulate the most limiting condition. [!ref](coolant_channel) summarizes the thermal-hydraulic parameters used in BISON through the `CoolantChannel` action. The flow area corresponds to the subchannel area with a rod pitch of 1.26 cm. The heated diameter is the cylinder-equivalent diameter of the HCF rod, and the heated perimeter is the perimeter of the outer fuel surface. Lastly, the hydraulic diameter is computed using [!eqref](eq:hyd-diameter). Note that additional turbulent mixing from the helical fuel shape is not taken into account in the 1D axial coolant model.

!media lwr/hcf/lhgr-history.png
       style=width:50%
       id=lhgr_history
       caption=Linear heat generation rate history of the hot fuel.

!table id=coolant_channel caption=Thermal-hydraulic parameters for HCF used in BISON.
| Parameter  | Unit  | Value  |
| :- | :- | :- |
| Inlet temperature | $K$ | 522 |
| Inlet pressure | $MPa$ | 13.8 |
| Inlet mass flux | $kg/m^2-s$ | 771 |
| Flow area | $mm^2$ | 94.11 |
| Heated diameter | mm | 9.97 |
| Heated perimeter | mm | 40.44 |
| Hydraulic diameter | mm | 9.31 |

\begin{equation}
    D_h = \frac{4A_\text{flow}}{P_h}
    \label{eq:hyd-diameter}
\end{equation}

### Materials

[!citep](ahn_microstructure_2016) reported that orders-of-magnitude differences in the size of gas bubbles between the U-0.1Zr alloy ($\alpha$-U phase) and U-40Zr alloy ($\delta$-UZr$_2$ phase) following 140 keV He$^+$ ion irradiation. In the irradiated U-40Zr alloy, the average bubble diameter was approximately 6nm and remained nearly constant across different irradiation doses. To capture this phase-dependent bubble size effect, the fuel volumetric swelling model in BISON (`UPuZrVolumetricSwellingEigentrain`) was modified by incorporating the fission gas bubble radius as an input parameter (`bubble_radius`). In this model, the bubble radius is fixed at 10 nm, which is about twice the reported size, as a conservative assumption. This assumption should be revisited once experimental data on volumetric swelling under neutron irradiation become available. Lastly, it is worth noting that zirconium redistribution in the fuel, which could affect the thermal properties and radial fission rate distribution in the fuel, is not yet considered in this model due to the lack of validation of existing models for three-dimensional case.

!listing hcf/input.i block=fuel_swelling language=cpp


## Running the model

The user can run BISON in parallel on INL's HPC Cluster with the command below:

```
module load use.moose bison-openmpi
mpiexec -n 48 bison-opt -i input.i
```
