# SEFOR Model Description

The +S+outhwest +E+xperimental +F+ast +O+xide +R+eactor (SEFOR) was an experimental sodium-cooled fast breeder reactor operated from 1969 to 1972 with maximum power up to 20 MWt [!citep](Meyer1970sefor). It was a pool-type sodium fast reactor (SFR) fueled with mixed UO$2$-PuO$2$ (MOX). The reactor core was housed in the concrete-shielded nitrogen-atmosphere within a reactor building. Core criticality was controlled by ten movable nickel reflectors positioned outside the reactor vessel, moving vertically. For shutdown, all reflectors were pushed down below the reactor fuel region. During normal operations, two reflector positions were adjusted to fine-tune core criticality while the others were either down below the active core or fully up to cover the reactor fuel region.

 During the SEFOR operation period, a three-phase experimental program was carried out to measure the Doppler reactivity feedback under various reactor conditions: Phase I - reactor startup and zero-power tests[!citep](Noble1970sefor), Phase II - steady state power ascending tests[!citep](Pflasterer1969sefor), and Phase III - reactivity insertion transient tests[!citep](Noble1971sefor). These experiments produced unique sets of measured Doppler reactivity feedback in a wide temperature range from around 350 °F to temperatures approaching the melting point of mixed oxide fuel of around 5000 °F, providing valuable data for code validations.

This document describes the MC$^2$-3/Griffin models developed to simulate the SEFOR experimental tests. The MOOSE Reactor Module [!citep](Shemon2023sefor) was used to set up the geometry mesh shown in [the Mesh Model](sefor/index_mesh.md). Griffin [!citep](Wang2025sefor) was used to calculate the neutronics shown in [the Griffin Model](sefor/index_griffin.md). In addition, MC$^2$-3 [!citep](Lee2017sefor) was used to generate multigroup cross sections for Griffin calculations at different temperatures. Inputs for different SEFOR core configurations were included in [the Cross Section](sefor/index_xs.md). The Monte Carlo code Shift [!citep](Pandya2016sefor) provided reference solutions for the Griffin deterministic results as described in [the Shift Reference Model](sefor/index_Shift.md).

Numerical simulations to the different experimental tests conducted in the SEFOR during three experimental phases are included in [the SEFOR Tests](sefor/index_sefor_tests.md). Accuracies of these numerical models were assessed by comparing with SEFOR experimental data.