# Griffin Open Xe-100 Model and Results

*Contact: Ryan Stewart, ryan.stewart@inl.gov*

*Model link: [Open Xe-100 Model](https://github.com/idaholab/virtual_test_bed/tree/devel/htgr/open-xe100)*

!tag name=Griffin Open Xe-100 Model
     description=Generation of local reactivity coefficients using IQS method in Griffin.
     image=https://mooseframework.inl.gov/virtual_test_bed/media/open-xe100/ss_flux_distribution.png
     pairs=reactor_type:HTGR
                       reactor:open-xe100
                       geometry:core
                       simulation_type:neutronics
                       transient:steady;null;transient
                       codes_used:Griffin
                       computing_needs:workstation
                       fiscal_year:2021
                       institution:INL
                       sponsor:NEAMS

## Griffin Open Xe-100 Model

This model is a 200 MW pebble bed reactor developed using Griffin [!citep](WANG2025110917);
it uses a 2D axisymmetric representation of the reactor core.
This model is discussed in detail in Stewart et. al. [!citep](Stewart2022).
The instantaneous core power density shown in [iqs_core_power_density] can differentiate
the regions of the core, where the darkest blue regions are part of the reflector
and fuel chute and the red-to-blue gradient represents the fuel region and cavity.
For a more detailed explanation of the geometry of the model, see Stewart et al. [!citep](Stewart2022).

!media open-xe100/iqs_core_power_density.png
       style=width:70%
       id=iqs_core_power_density
       caption=Instantaneous core power density of the Open Xe-100 Reactor at steady state.

Griffin solves the neutron transport problem using the diffusion equation
approximation. For transient problems, Griffin can use methods like
point reactor kinetics (PRKs) or the improved quasi-static (IQS) method. Griffin
supports homogenization equivalence with Superhomogenization (SPH) factors, which
this model uses.

For this model, there are four input files: (1) a steady-state eigenvalue calculation,
(2) a null transient using IQS, (3) a transient using IQS, and (4) a transient
using point kinetics equations (PKE)s. The output for the steady-state problem
includes a number of binary files. The IQS runs are dependent on these output
binaries for their initial conditions. The PKE run is dependent on PKE parameters
generated by the IQS transient. Therefore, the inputs should be run in the order
they have been listed in.

The input files for each simulation are described in the following:

[Griffin Open Xe-100 steady-state](open-xe100/open-xe100_ss.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 null transient](open-xe100/open-xe100_null.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 IQS transient](open-xe100/open-xe100_iqs.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 PKE transient](open-xe100/open-xe100_pke.md)

The results for these models are presented in the following:

[Griffin Open Xe-100 results](open-xe100/open-xe100_results.md)

## Running the Regression Tests

Griffin uses the MOOSE test runner to run regression tests. Tests are stored in
the tests file in the `open-xe100` directory along with the input files.

Navigate so that `open-xe100` is your present working directory and run:

```language=bash

griffin-opt --run tests

```

This will execute each input file and compare the output to the values in the
`gold` directory.

