# Griffin Open Xe-100 Results

The result files include the binary files from the steady-state case, which serve
as initial conditions for the null and IQS cases; the pke_params `csv` files from
the null and IQS cases that contain the generated PKE parameters; the regular `csv`
files which contain regular output from the steady-state, null, and IQS cases;
and the pke_fuel_auto `csv` which is output from the PKE case. This contains the
results of the reproduction of the temperature transient in the IQS case.

A brief summary of the results for the SPH-corrected cross sections follows.
For a more detailed explanation, see Stewart et al. [!citep](Stewart2022).

## Steady-State Results

The steady-state $k_{eff}$ generated by Griffin for the constant temperature of
$900 K$ was 1.32988. This was compared to the Serpent model for this same reactor,
which had a $k_{eff}$ of 1.32987 with an uncertainty of 4.3E-05. Therefore, the
Griffin-calculated $k_{eff}$ was within the statistical uncertainty of the Serpent
value, once SPH factors were computed and applied.

The steady-state scalar and adjoint fluxes are show in [ss_flux_distributions].

!media open-xe100/ss_flux_distributions.png
        style=width:70%
        id=ss_flux_distributions
        caption=Fluxes and power density calculated from the constant temperature model (900 K). [!citep](Stewart2022).

## PKE Parameters and Reactivity Coefficients

Generated PKE parameters compared with Serpent values are shown in [pke_params].

!table id=pke_params caption=Comparison of PKE parameters at $900 K$ using super-homogenization corrected cross sections [!citep](Stewart2022).
|   | $\beta_1$ | $\beta_2$ | $\beta_3$ | $\beta_4$ | $\beta_5$ | $\beta_6$ |
| - | - | - | - | - | - | - |
| Serpent   | $2.319E-4$ | $1.202E-3$ | $1.143E-3$ | $2.576E-3$ | $1.066E-3$ | $4.465E-4$ |
| Griffin   | $2.344E-4$ | $1.210E-3$ | $1.150E-3$ | $2.588E-3$ | $1.070E-3$ | $4.486E-4$ |
| Diff. (%) | $-1.052$ | $-0.675$ | $-0.691$ | $-0.469$ | $-0.465$ | $-0.469$ |
|   | $\lambda_1$ | $\lambda_2$ | $\lambda_3$ | $\lambda_4$ | $\lambda_5$ | $\lambda_6$ |
| Serpent   | $1.334E-2$ | $3.273E-2$ | $1.208E-1$ | $3.029E-1$ | $8.501E-1$ | $2.855$ |
| Griffin   | $1.334E-2$ | $3.273E-2$ | $1.208E-1$ | $3.029E-1$ | $8.501E-1$ | $2.855$ |
| Diff. (%) | $< 0.001$ | $< 0.001$ | $< 0.001$ | $< 0.001$ | $< 0.001$ | $< 0.001$ |
|   | $\beta_{total}$ | $\lambda_{total}$ | $\Lambda$ |   |   |   |
| Serpent   | $6.434E-3$ | $4.162$ | $5.116E-4$ |   |   |   |
| Griffin   | $6.467E-3$ | $4.162$ | $4.902E-4$ |   |   |   |
| Diff. (%) | $-0.514$ | $< 0.001$ | $4.183$ |   |   |   |

[global_reactivity_coeffs] shows the global reactivity coefficients that were generated
using three methods, as described in Stewart et al.[!citep](Stewart2022). It should be noted that
the dynamic reactivity must be scaled by $k_{eff}$ because Griffin uses $k_{eff}$
to scale the transport equation; the scaling allows Griffin
to obtain a stable configuration during the transient, resulting in a larger
reactivity coefficient. When the reactivity coefficients are divided by the
steady-state $k_{eff}$, the values shown are obtained. The values in parentheses
are the percent difference from the Serpent coefficients.

!table id=global_reactivity_coeffs caption=Temperature reactivity coefficients (pcm/K) [!citep](Stewart2022).
|   | Dynamic $\rho$ | $\Delta T = 1K$ | $\Delta T = 300K$ | Serpent |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| Fuel   | $-3.41$ $(3.02\%)$ | $-3.39$ $(-2.49\%)$ | $-3.40$ $(-2.79\%)$ | $-3.31$ |
| Moderator   | $-2.88$ $(5.11\%)$ | $-2.88$ (-5.62\%)$ | $-2.54$ $(7.06\%)$ | $-2.73$ |
| Reflector | $1.65$ $(-0.01\%)$ | $1.64$ $(-0.60\%)$ | $1.58$ $(3.07\%)$ | $1.63$ |
| Total  | $-4.64$ $(-5.13\%)$ | $-4.64$ $(-5.13\%)$ | $-4.47$ $(-1.41\%)$ | $-4.41$ |

Local reactivity coefficients were also calculated on a per element basis. [ss_local_reactivity_coeffs]
shows the steady-state case.

!media open-xe100/ss_local_reactivity_coeffs.png
        style=width:70%
        id=ss_local_reactivity_coeffs
        caption=Local fuel reactivity coefficient for each element in the steady state case. [!citep](Stewart2022).

[reactivity_coeffs_comparison] compares the global and average local reactivity coefficients.

!table id=reactivity_coeffs_comparison caption=Comparison of global and local reactivity coefficients (pcm/K) [!citep](Stewart2022).
|   | Global | Local | Diff. (%) |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| Fuel   | $-3.413$ | $-3.414$ | $< 0.1\%$ |
| Moderator   | $-2.877$ | $-2.877$ | $< 0.1\%$ |
| Reflector | $1.650$ | $1.650$ | $< 0.1\%$ |
| Total  | $-4.640$ | $-4.641$ | $< 0.1\%$ |

## Transient Results

The IQS and PKE transient parameters are plotted and compared:

!media htgr/open-xe100/plots/plots.py
        image_name=power_comparison.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_power
        caption=Comparison of normalized power between the IQS and PKE methods with the same reactivity profile imposed.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_Lambda.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_Lambda
        caption=Comparison of mean generation time ($\Lambda$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_beta-0.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_beta-0
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor fraction for the 0th group ($\beta_0$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_beta-1.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_beta-1
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor fraction for the 1st group ($\beta_1$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_beta-2.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_beta-2
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor fraction for the 2nd group ($\beta_2$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_beta-3.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_beta-3
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor fraction for the 3rd group ($\beta_3$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_beta-4.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_beta-4
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor fraction for the 4th group ($\beta_4$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_beta-5.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_beta-5
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor fraction for the 5th group ($\beta_5$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_lambda-0.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_lambda-0
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor decay constant for the 0th group ($\lambda_0$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_lambda-1.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_lambda-1
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor decay constant for the 1st group ($\lambda_1$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_lambda-2.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_lambda-2
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor decay constant for the 2nd group ($\lambda_2$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_lambda-3.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_lambda-3
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor decay constant for the 3rd group ($\lambda_3$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_lambda-4.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_lambda-4
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor decay constant for the 4th group ($\lambda$_4) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_lambda-5.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_lambda-5
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor decay constant for the 5th group ($\lambda_5$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_c-0.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_c-0
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor concentration for the 0th group ($C_0$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_c-1.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_c-1
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor concentration for the 1st group ($C_1$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_c-2.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_c-2
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor concentration for the 2nd group ($C_2$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_c-3.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_c-3
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor concentration for the 3rd group ($C_3$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_c-4.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_c-4
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor concentration for the 4th group ($C_4$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.

!media open-xe100/iqs_vs_pke_c-5.png
        style=width:70%
        id=iqs_vs_pke_c-5
        caption=Comparison of delayed neutron precursor concentration for the 5th group ($C_5$) between the IQS and PKE transient results.
