# Griffin Open Xe-100 PKE Transient

## Input Description

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i

This input file is different from the others for this model; this input uses the
point kinetics equations to reproduce the temperature transient, rather than the
IQS model.

### PKE

This block sets up the point kinetic equations. It has the following parameters:

`n_delayed_groups`, the number of groups of delayed neutron precursors.\\ 
`DNP_variable`, the name of the delayed neutron precursor decay constant variable.\\ 
`DN_fraction_aux`, the name of the delayed neutron fraction variable.\\ 
`DNP_decay_constant_aux`, the value of the delayed neutron precursor decay constant
variable.\\ 
`mean_generation_time_aux`, the name of the mean generation time variable.\\ 
`reactivity_aux`, the name of the reactivity variable.\\ 
`verbose`, the verbose level of the action. A higher verbosity results in more
printed output.\\ 
`amplitude_variable`, the name of the amplitude variable.\\ 
`pke_parameter_csv`, the name of the `csv` file from which the initializing PKE
parameters are read. These values are generated by the IQS run.

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i block=PKE

### ICs

The initial conditions block only requires an initial condition for the amplitude.
The remaining variables are initialized with the values in the PKE parameter `csv`.

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i block=ICs

### Functions

The `rho_time` function allows a step change in reactivity that corresponds to the
temperature feedback.

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i block=Functions

### AuxKernels

The `temp_ramp` auxiliary kernel applies the step change in reactivity from the
`rho_time` function to the reactivity variable.

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i block=AuxScalarKernels

### Executioner

The Executioner block sets up the problem type and the numerical methods used
to solve the neutronics. This block has the following parameters:

`solve_type`, the solve type for the system.\\ 
`petsc_options_iname`, names of PETSc name/value pairs.\\ 
`petsc_options_value`, values of PETSc name/value pairs.\\
`start_time`, the start time of the simulation.\\ 
`dt`, the timestep between solves.\\ 
`end_time`, the end time of the simulation.\\ 
`reset_dt`, used when restarting a calculation to force a change in dt.\\ 
`l_max_its`, specifies the maximum number of linear iterations.\\ 
`l_tol`, the linear relative tolerance.\\ 
`nl_max_its`, specifies the maximum number of nonlinear iterations.\\ 
`nl_rel_tol`, the nonlinear relative tolerance.\\ 
`nl_abs_tol`, the nonlinear absolute tolerance.

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i block=Executioner

### Outputs

Output in various formats are requested or suppressed in this block. Notably,
the `csv` file that can be used for regression testing is requested.

!listing htgr/open-xe100/xe100_pke.i block=Outputs

## Running the Simulation

Griffin can be run on Linux, Unix, MacOS, and Windows in WSL. Griffin can be run
from the shell prompt as shown below:

```language=bash

griffin-opt -i xe100_pke.i

```

\\ 

### Links

[Griffin Open Xe-100 index](open-xe100/index.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 null transient](open-xe100/open-xe100_ss.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 IQS transient](open-xe100/open-xe100_null.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 PKE transient](open-xe100/open-xe100_iqs.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 results](open-xe100/open-xe100_results.md)

[Griffin Open Xe-100 model](https://github.com/idaholab/virtual_test_bed/tree/devel/htgr/open-xe100)